If you're a regular BBLC viewer, you may have seen
our interview with Rob Williams and Psych-K,
a system of repatterning our subconscious beliefs.
Dr. Teri Mahaney carries forth in this tradition
with her work in reprogramming
subconscious belief systems, but while we sleep.
Among her clients have been the Department of Defense,
the U.S. Army, the IRS, insurance corporations,
and even the Girl Scouts.
The magic of Teri's work lies in her unrelenting search
for the all-inclusive messages that every brain
can respond to while in a theta, or sleep, state.
Truly, a woman who has done her homework.
(relaxing guitar music)
So, how did you end up on this path of curiosity
as to how the depth of the human mind works, to begin with?
Well, I was always curious, and then I had a daughter
who was born with some brain difficulties.
I never expected to do this when I grew up.
And in those days, back in the 70's,
we didn't even have labels, we didn't have research,
and I just started working with her intuitively.
And I got such good results that, pretty soon,
I was being asked would I come in and talk to teachers,
and it just began to evolve, and then I ended up teaching,
which I did not do until I was 40 years old.
When I got in the classroom, I was
really dedicated to my students performing,
and so I was just constantly playing with the brain.
What kind of work were you in?
At that time, I was an associate professor of business
at the university, which was an extremely interesting
place to be, because I was the token female
in the business department, doing snake oil on the side.
So it was quite fun. (laughs)
Well, the snake oil must have had
some applications, certainly, in the business world.
Did you start playing with some of that in that world?
That is exactly correct, all of my first clients
who came to me were all through the business connection.
It was people wanting to sell more insurance,
businessmen wanting to get along better with their partners.
I had a man who wanted to own a fishing fleet,
and came and did a custom tape on that,
and he ended up with a fishing fleet.
You've had some, actually some very high profile
clientele in the past, and it seems to be
across the board, whether they're professional athletes,
whether they're housewives, whether they're salesmen.
What is it that you have, what is it that you've developed
that seems to have this across the board
effective success for individuals?
It fixes it.
Well yeah, I gathered that.
Is there some special thing, though,
that you figured out in the area of hypnosis?
I mean, I assume some of the work you're doing now
is that special thing, but, where did you start realizing
that you could have a particular impact on people like this?
Oh, that's a great question, because I never did,
and again, I never expected to.
I had made a tape for myself, to this super
learning technology, Suggestopedia as we call it in Europe.
And I fell asleep listening to it, and I just thought
it didn't work, and threw it away.
And when it ended up working, I jokingly
told my women friends about it.
We started as a complete joke, and they said,
"Oh, well do you think it's help me, blah blah blah?"
And I said, no, but we'll try it.
And every one of them we tried worked.
And I still didn't believe it, so I was in denial,
or disbelief, or whatever language you wanna use
for probably the first year, but everybody
kept reporting back going "Teri, it worked!"
And I kept going--
Well, explain what it is for a moment.
Sure, in the beginning, 1985 to 1989,
I worked one on one with private clients.
They would come to me with a problem.
"I talk on the phone too much."
A young man who couldn't pass a Spanish test.
A businessman who hit his head too often.
A fellow who wanted to sell real estate, but said he would
sit in front of his TV instead of getting out there.
I mean, it was just across the board.
And I would sit down with them,
hand write a custom script for them
making statements to fix this,
and then I would send them home with
a tape recorder and some music.
And they would record that script in their own voice,
and then they would listen to it at night,
while they slept, for 10 nights.
And the problem would be gone.
They all kept reporting back, it was fixed,
and I'd go, that's impossible, it can't be fixed.
But it just kept working.
So in '89, I took two years off and went in research mode,
and read everything about the brain, everything
about EEG, everything about subliminal programming.
I actually did the work for four years
before I did the research.
So, it sounds as though the way in which
you structure the phrases, seems to be really key here,
Critical.
because other people do subliminal programming.
And what is it that you discovered
about the way in which the statements have to be made
that you're going to have an effect that might not,
say, at times be even counter-productive for people?
Several things make this particularly different.
Number one, we play a specific music in the background
that holds the brain in the theta brain wave state.
It's a little technical, but just know that
we're hittin' the right place.
Number two, each statement is repeated three times
to an eight second cadencing,
that is the brain research for long term learning.
Number three, I did not limit my statements
to positive affirmations, there is a tremendous
body of information out there
that says the subconscious can't hear a negative statement.
Well, (sighs) I'm not gonna say on video
what my response is to that,
(Regina laughs)
because it's very simple, if that were true,
you would not have any possible programming
that you weren't okay.
If the subconscious can't hear a negative,
you never would have heard "You're dumb."
you never would have heard, "You're a bad person."
I mean, make up your mind, it either can hear a negative,
or it can't hear a negative, you gotta go
one way or the other, do you know what I'm saying? (laughs)
Absolutely, evidence would suggest
looking at all of us it's society at large.
We've heard an awful lot of, our subconscious
has heard an awful lot of negative programming
throughout our lives.
Absolutely, so, this body of information
that goes that way, I go the other way, says, for instance,
"Never use the word not, never make a negative statement."
I don't do that.
Gimme any topic, and I'll give you an example of a script,
just throw something out for me.
Okay, popular one, "I'm fat."
Fat, arright, being fat and I are one, everybody goes
(gasps) "Oh, no, I can't do that, oh my gosh!"
Well, what we resist, persists.
As soon as we come into oneness with something, supposedly,
that is the healing state in itself, that's where I start.
I release and forgive myself for being fat.
I release and forgive myself for not being fat.
The subconscious can hear that, it can hear that.
Interesting, because as I was looking through all
of your materials and the various subjects that you cover,
I have a couple girlfriends, in fact,
that were curious about this interview today,
because they have interest in losing weight.
Which is why I brought it up.
But I notice there's nothing in there
called weight loss, why is that?
That's because I can't guarantee it,
and I will only put out what I can guarantee.
Weight loss, when I work privately with clients,
is a 50-50 game, they either lose it (finger snaps),
or they don't (finger snaps).
They don't say, "I wanna lose 25 pounds" and lose five.
They don't way "I wanna lose 25 pounds" and lose 10.
They either (snaps fingers) lose it, or (snaps) they don't.
It's a yes-no question, if you don't hit that target,
you don't get the results.
Years ago, I used to do hypnotherapy.
Had a little clinic, and I noticed the same thing.
What is it, and I'm going to come back
to some of the broad questions, but while we're on this,
what is it about weight loss
that is so personally deep
and difficult to transform on some levels?
Boy, you probably know more about that
than I do, with your background.
Let me give you an example as an answer.
I have a new client, she got on the money series,
she increased her income 600% in six months,
so she was pretty impressed, and caught with me.
She wanted to work on weight, and I said,
"May I ask you to start on one thing first,
"then we'll move into that?"
And I put her on the CD Love Yourself.
She then called me and said, "I've never even told you
"I'm a binge eater, I have stopped binge eating on this CD."
It doesn't have the word weight on it.
Because, really, it's not about weight,
It's not about weight.
Weight is just a symptom that has to do
with other feelings of self-worth, et cetera.
So, I found, I assume that was the reason you did not
overtly offer that, because you do have other series
that have to do with self-worth, and self-love, et cetera.
And so that can be, and a manifestation
of that as weight loss.
That's correct, I now, because of popular pressure,
I'll be perfectly honest, I shouldn't say that,
commercial popular pressure.
(laughs)
I have a CD out called Be Physically Well,
and it does include weight management and exercise.
But it is not geared toward that.
Okay, now let's go into the,
a little bit more of the nuts and bolts of doing this.
You call this SuperSleep, and you
listen to these while you're sleeping.
There's something called preconscious processing
involved in this, what does that mean?
Preconscious processing is a term that
was come up with a guy named Dixon.
And the reason he did that,
he did years and years of research,
and when he tried to put the research out,
the hypnotherapy community,
the psychological community, psychotherapist community,
all went AAAAH! and went running and screaming,
because he used the word subliminal.
So he simply changed the word to preconscious
so it would be acceptable.
Ah, so that's what preconscious is.
So that's the real truth.
Yes.
See, when you talk to a researcher, you get all that
background stuff, you know how it really happened.
(laughter)
And the real truth is, Dixon simply said,
the only reason this society has not accepted
subliminal programming is, number one, fear of the unknown,
number two, we cannot agree
on the definition of subliminal,
and number three, too many people
will lose too much money if it works.
So he renamed it pre-conscious processing.
Interesting, and also, a general fear
in society at large because of the popularization
in films and such, that the subliminal programming
can program you to a negative effect.
Yes, you're right.
I notice that you actually have,
in your materials, the script that's embedded,
so people can actually see the lines that are
embedded in the subliminal programming.
I've used it the last few nights, because
I wanted to experience this before we talked.
I noticed that, as your brain becomes more sleepy,
more entrained, ultimately you drop off
and your voice starts receding into the music more and more.
Now I'm assuming that's intentional,
so that it's not competing with the brain?
It is intentional, but you've asked this question
at the perfect time, because I've had so many people
call me back and say "I want to be able to hear every word."
I have just gone back into the sound studio,
we have just started from scratch, and 48 CDs
are being remastered with a higher volume.
So, not only will you get a word for word script,
you will be able, at any time,
to hear every word on that CD.
You're gonna need to turn it down lower to go to sleep.
From my perception, there could be
a lot of reasons for that, frankly,
I think that is a lot of fear, right now,
of people saying "I don't trust she's telling me
"what she says she's telling me."
And I can honor that, they don't know me.
It's a fearful society right now.
And it is showing up in my business,
and I'm completely re-doing my product line based on that.
What kind of effect does that have?
Because ideally, you want the person to relax,
hear the music, float away, and drift off to sleep.
If you're anchored in trying to listen to every word,
It doesn't work.
No.
So, what happens if you pump the volume
of your voice up, then?
How's this going to affect the result?
The only thing I can do is, quote,
hope for the best, that eventually,
they're gonna get so tired of listening,
they're gonna fall asleeṗ.
(laughter)
I'm counting on that.
That's what I'm holding out for.
It is done in a monotonous cadence for a reason.
It is, isn't it?
But the interesting part is,
if you can see, on a sheet of paper, what's being said,
it should, ideally, alleviate a lot of that fear.
But again, we're like I said, we are in mistrustful times,
as you're well aware of.
Now that we're talking a little bit about
the stages of consciousness and the sleep,
what about the levels of consciousness that we experience,
from our pure, working daytime mentality
we carry with us through to the deepest levels of sleep,
and where does this start interfacing?
Well, I oversimplify, because
we don't have 33 hours here,
so if you don't mind, I'm gonna do that.
I always ask people just to think about
baseball, and being up to bat.
It makes it easier to remember.
B is for Beta, A is for Alpha, and T is for Theta.
Beta is where you and I are right now.
We're talking, speaking, doing, acting,
hopefully not under too much stress.
Now when we (breathing),
chill, we'll be in alpha, and when
we go to sleep, we'll be in theta.
So where does meditation normally fall in?
It depends on the meditator, and of course,
where you are at the time.
Most people are meditating in a low alpha.
Some people, with a lot of practice, who are at easy access,
will go right into a theta state.
Now, this is the complexity of it.
The whole brain doesn't have to be in one brain state,
so this can be in beta, this can be in alpha,
this can be in theta.
And they can be operating simultaneously.
What we call the awakened mind, Anna Wise did this research,
if any of your people are interested,
I love what she did, pick up her books.
What we call the awakened mind is operating
simultaneously in all brain states.
Simultaneously.
There's also delta.
Yes, and delta is deep, dreamless sleep,
which I choose to believe is the,
if we have these kinds of theories,
it can be the state of astral travelling,
it can be that the door to the book of life,
or Akashic records, if we choose to believe that.
It is, in my opinion, the door
to the collective unconscious.
Based on Jung's psychology, it is
the door to the collective unconscious.
And you say that the people, for example,
very experienced and devoted yogis, et cetera,
can function a good part of the time in the delta state?
They hang out there, in theta.
They hang out there.
They hang out in theta/delta.
(laughs)
They just hang there.
So if you've been in what we call the presence of a saint,
and you feel some sort of a shifting,
I mean literally, like an electrical current,
brain wave states are electrical current,
and you are getting a different electrical current.
It's like the difference between
plugging into a 220 or a 110.
You plug into a 220, you're in high beta.
(imitates machine whining), you know,
you plug into a 110, you've chilled out a little bit.
You plug into a yogi, you're probably down to 30.
(makes shushing noise)
So what happens when we're
plugging into each other in our culture all day long,
especially in the caffeine culture?
In my opinion, the same.
To the degree that we have what
the language Silva made popular, mind control,
is the degree we can hold our mind where we want it,
regardless of external influence,
and that's hopefully what a meditator learns to do,
is to be able to control that.
If I wanna put it right in this language,
the BAT language, it's to be able
to control that electrical current through the brain.
So that if I drive out of here, let's say,
and a rabbit goes in front of my car,
and I'm afraid of hitting it, I go "AAAH!"
I could freak, or I can just go,
"I'm gonna stop for that pretty rabbit."
One puts me in high beta, one keeps me in alpha.
What about the life we're living,
and the culture in which we live?
We're bombarded with thoughts, ideas,
billboards, magazines, media, et cetera.
How is that affecting the, quote,
subliminal programming of our brain?
In an overt way, even?
It's a great question, and I'm the wrong one to ask.
I took my T.V. out about 28 years ago.
I don't read the newspaper,
I don't listen to the news, except NPR.
I take selected magazines where I'm
very, very conscious of how I input information.
You obviously have done this intentionally.
One would think so.
(laughter)
It's become a habit, hasn't it?
Well, I can completely relate to that.
I also had to stop reading the paper quite a long time ago.
I'll cruise the headlines, still,
just to be aware of what's happening,
but this degree of negativity,
by design or not, is creating a huge amount
of neuroses in this culture, it would seem.
And how are you experiencing
the end result of that in your clientele?
That's a good question.
I wanna say one segue into that, if I might first.
I have a theory that the bombardment on the United States
of the 9/11 photography put probably a good 60%
of our public into post traumatic stress disorder,
none of which has been recognized,
and so people are walking around out there goin'
"I dunno what's wrong with me."
Well, if you sit and watch image after image after image
after image after image, it just mainlines straight in.
Then you go to sleep at night and go into theta,
and when all that downloads, it goes
directly into long term memory.
Now, we have another disaster that
we're watching more and more and more images of.
I think what that has done is really
created a tremendous imbalance in our society.
Fear based, as you said earlier.
I'm finding people primarily fear based,
I'm finding people scattered, I'm finding people
unable to focus, all of the things that would be
the side effects of a post-traumatic stress disorder.
And of the,
what are we supposed to do en masse?
What would you recommend if you were queen of the world,
en masse, to start reversing
some of the fear that's been instigated here?
Well of course, I have a personal agenda.
Right.
I would run my CD Open To Love
on every Muzak and elevator in America.
I have 90 statements on it dissolving fear,
and then 90 statements being safe in a loving environment.
Post-traumatic stress disorder is in the theta.
It's in the subconscious, and if you're not
working on that level, you're not healing it.
And this obviously is going to influence
other aspects of your life, if you have this anxiety,
subconscious anxiety going on?
Your business, your relationships,
what you're doing with your kids,
it's pervasive.
So, wouldn't you say,
you pick up one of these CDs, and
we start working on ourselves in this SuperSleep state?
Mm hmm.
You're talking about a Pandora's Box of sorts.
You're coming up against every program
that the person has held true on a subconscious level.
How does the subconscious affect that person
when you open these doors, what starts happening?
The program's not for wimps, let me start there.
You really have to be willing to take a look at yourself,
and be willing to go through the process of those changes.
People who come to me unexpected,
and I have a tremendous amount of people
who just find me on the internet, just kind of,
never have tried anything like this before,
and that's why you see, on my web page, I have like
22 pages of "What can I expect when I listen to this?"
This is what processing looks like, folks,
so if you have this or this or this come up,
it's all perfectly normal.
Give me a typical processing scenario.
Sure, I have a new client that has a fear of flying.
She happens to be in marketing, and
she works with an international clientele.
This has stopped her in her tracks in business.
(makes crash noise) All in all, done.
So before I do a custom tape for someone,
I always ask they start on a CD.
Number one, it's a lot cheaper for them.
It's just, you know.
And so we started her on Open To Love.
I gave her a week, and then I checked back in with her.
She said, "You know, I've had this strangest thing."
She said, "I've just been so irritable with my boyfriend,
"and one day I just, everything in my life went wrong.
"And then two days later, it happened to him."
And she said, "We wondered what's going on."
I said, "You're processing."
She started having nightmares.
It is all unusual to have a nightmare,
and it's a wonderful thing when it happens.
Because a nightmare says, "I've just hit Pandora's box.
"I've just opened Pandora's Box, I've just
"let that monster out."
And when you've had a nightmare
that has been triggered by this kind of work,
you never have that issue again.
Your nightmare is your guarantee that issue's gone.
It's quite wonderful.
So how often do people bail
when the nightmares begin, and say,
"Ooh, I can't ride this out any further."
What happens then?
Oh, that's an excellent question.
I don't know if I'm just protected,
or you know, angels are flying all over us.
Anybody can make up any theory they want to.
Generally speaking, I'd say over 95% of the time,
anyone that begins working with the CD will continue.
Because from the time they've had
that thing on three nights,
the subconscious has already started to program.
And it says, "I don't care what you want, conscious,
"I want fixed," and it will leave them to turn that on.
I have people say to me,
"I swore I would never listen to you,
"and I was so tired of your voice,
"and I was not going through that,"
went right in that night and turned that CD on.
So what I really try to support people in doing
is make this your program, I mean,
you've got a CD, but listen to it your way.
If you wanna listen to it two nights and quit, quit.
You wanna listen to it a year without stopping,
as one of my clients, did, get this.
She traveled internationally, wore a watch,
kept one watch on her home time
and one on her international time
so she never went 24 hours without her tape.
That's a little compulsive, but
She get her results, though?
She got her results, it worked for her.
Then we went and worked on the compulsion.
(laughter)
You know that game, Regina, one flips up,
another one flips up, it's like jack in the box.
This one's gone, look what was under it.
(laughter)
We have another person on our site,
Rob Williams, who also works
with kinesiology and the subconscious mind,
and talks about some of the key blocks
that occur for humanity at large.
What is your understanding, from all your experience,
of some of the key blocks?
Do you notice things with human beings
that come up over and over?
What would those key blocks generally be?
Actually, that's how I started making things
for the public, as I said, the first four years
I just worked one on one, and I had this
"I will never make a recording for another person,
"they must take responsibility for their own lives."
Well, then I made a tape for myself
and got over that kind of arrogance.
(laughter)
I'm doing this for me, too.
It never stops.
And then I started making them for the public,
based on just those themes, you know,
nobody got enough love as a kid,
nobody got enough approval, nobody got enough safety.
If we wanna call Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs,
if you wanna start just with a
hierarchy of needs, it's pretty interesting,
or you can start with a chakra system, and just
clear everything that's supposedly in those chakras.
That's pretty interesting.
You can go through any philosophical door you choose to,
to reach what you think those issues are.
For me, 20 years later, as you know what became great fun,
is about five years ago I started working with
what we would call collective unconscious,
of if you choose to call it, karmic issues,
and did a couple of research projects on that.
We got some major, major movement with people
when we took on what we felt were universal, karmic issues.
Slavery, domination, other things that have been
going on on this planet from the beginning.
We had some shake, rattle and roll on that.
Does the karma extend to individuals,
as well, and even extending back into other times?
I dunno, make up a story.
Yeah, so, wherever it's coming from,
it doesn't matter if it's individual, or collective.
The experience is still buried there,
in the subconscious mind.
If we choose to believe that delta is
the access to the collective unconscious,
then every one of us access that.
If we go with that scientific doorway,
and then every time every one of us goes into delta,
we are going in that doorway.
What about the notion of belief systems,
and religion, and how this plays in?
Are there, do you find that some people
are afraid of having their mind worked with,
because of religious or spiritual
belief systems that are in place?
Yes, and again in the first years,
that's why it was so powerful for me
to be working with people where they
made their own recordings, so they got
to do it in their own language.
I will give you an example, I had a young woman come to me.
Gorgeous young woman.
She was bulimic, she was all dressed in flowing silk,
everything was colorful and soft.
And I said, "I'm just curious, what do you do?"
She was a park ranger, she went out
three months at a time, in a canoe in Alaska,
by herself, and mapped rivers.
I kinda went, "Cognitive dissonance, cognitive dissonance,
"cognitive dissonance."
It's a disguise.
(laughter)
Oops!
You wouldn't have read that one.
No, I woulda missed that one by, as we say,
the New York mile, and I'm goin' okay.
She'd been in out of several treatments centers,
the fancy one in Florida and whatever,
and had not been able to fix this.
They told her, "You go into one more
"bout like this, chickie, you're dead."
So that was pretty serious to her.
She found her way to your door?
Different, it's interesting how they find me, isn't it?
So what happened, when she saw
this dissonance, as it were?
I started playing with that dissonance,
and what I found was, she was raised Amish.
She was extremely, we can call it creative,
we can call it sensual, we can call it kinesthetic,
whatever language is comfortable for you on it.
But it gave her great pleasure to have
all of the things in her life the Amish said were sins.
Mmmm.
Including the pleasant taste of food.
And so we created a script for her that said
things like, God knows I'm a good person, or a good girl,
or a good Amish person, or whatever her language was,
when I nurture myself with good food.
Mmm hmmm.
(finger snap)
She could eat again.
That was it.
And carry the food.
So what I found, and I know you found
the same thing in hypnosis, is when we get these thoughts,
some of them hook up like cars on a railroad train.
(laughter)
and as soon as those things hook up and connect,
that's where we get some very interesting behavior.
A lot of my work is to disconnect those,
and that's why some of the scripting language I use
can be something like this,
"Eating well and feeling shame are separate for me now.
"Eating gourmet food and feeling guilty
"are separate for me now."
See, we literally just unhook those.
If you can find those statements,
you're just three minutes, well actually,
24 seconds away from being able to unhook them.
What happens, though, when you have,
say if you have a CD that's pre-recorded,
now this is for an individual,
if you have one that's pre-recorded
taking into account the various different
influences in one's life, they could be
polar opposites but have the same effect,
how is that bridged in the way you do things?
Great, I love talking to hypnotherapists.
(laughter)
Two things, number one is, I shared before in the scripting,
let's go back to, let's say, eating,
because this was the example we brought up.
"I release and forgive myself for eating too much.
"I release and forgive myself for not eating too much."
I always, what I call, clear it both ways.
And the subconscious mind,
it doesn't matter to it, it will take
the one that it's attached to, so to speak?
Every one of my CDs starts with a protection statement
that says, "As I listen to these statements,
"I am divinely protected, I hear only the statements
"for my highest good and perfect healing,
"dissolving all else."
Isn't that sweet?
Any event, I do something.
Pretty much covers that part.
Then I do something stupid, you don't hafta pay the price.
So, that gets it set up, and then,
once the subconscious hears this both ways,
if one's already healed, it just doesn't need it.
And if the other one's not, it takes it into account.
Mmm hmm.
That's the first one, and then, when I get further,
deeper into what I call the clearing script,
before I go into the positive affirmations,
I have this marvelous statement
that took me like 16 years to get,
"I dissolve all my imbalances on the soul level around."
It's pretty sweet, you can just do
"I dissolve all my imbalances
"on the soul level around food."
Mmm hmm.
I don't have to know what they are.
That's right.
"I dissolve all my imbalances
"on the soul level around eating."
I don't have to know what they are.
After I used that statement for four years,
and it's still on some of my CDs, I thought,
am I limiting myself by saying "On the soul level?"
If we choose to believe in an aetheric level,
or an astral level, or if we have other belief systems,
I have just limited this person.
So all of the new work just says,
"I dissolve all my imbalances around."
Right.
And speaking of the subject of the soul,
and human evolution, at this time,
when all this fear is being generated,
we also seem to be noticing that
many, many people on this planet are,
there's a push from inside their being
to start growing new parts,
and evolving their own consciousness.
How is what you're doing playing into
the evolution of consciousness at this time,
or is that something that you're
exploring and working on now?
Well, I'm just gonna jump out there,
I appreciate your style, because you're putting me on a line
that I have not gone on before publicly.
When I started this many years ago,
I set a quote secret purpose that
I did not share with anyone, and it was
to change the collective unconscious on the planet.
If we choose to believe in the Hundredth Monkey,
if we choose to believe in some of those philosophies,
if 144,000 people shift in a particular way,
supposedly, it's enough to hold the energy
for the rest of the people to shift.
I'm perfectly happy to support that.
And so, what you're already doing
is spinning that into motion?
You got it.
And how about someone who's
not coming for relationships, or health, or anything else,
they say "I seem to be experiencing some block
"in my own being, I want to jump to the next level."
Maybe most people, not even knowing
what that next level is, how do you then respond to that?
Actually, if we know what the next level is,
I get a little nervous, because,
(laughter)
that tells me we probably don't have a clue
where we're going, but I haven't, anyway.
Let me speak for myself,
I shouldn't put that on anyone else.
I would chat with the person a few minutes,
I could certainly start them with Ground your Spirituality.
I love that CD, I'll give you an example.
When I moved to Sedona, I thought,
okay, now it's my turn, I've been in the business world
and I've worked for the governor,
and I've done all that stuff.
Now, I'm gonna become Mother Teresa.
And you know, I wore sackcloth, and took off my earrings,
and quit cussing, and you know.
Which a lot of people in Sedona
do when they first arrive.
It was the natural go Sedona thing.
I was out on the land every day going "Um,"
it was just great.
I knew that I was just so close,
so I did this script for myself,
on grounding my spirituality,
and one of the statements in there was,
"I am divinely guided when to control
"from personality and ego, and when to flow from soul."
Because after I went into Boynton Canyon
and sat there and opened my crown chakra,
I still had to drive home.
(laughs) Right.
So I'm goin', okay, I kinda need to work this out.
That was the statement--
So what happened from there, for you?
I was so excited, because I knew it was gonna
put me over the edge, I was gonna be so spiritual.
And three days later, I come out, put my earrings back on,
put my mascara back on, change back into my,
and start cussing again, and I wondered,
what has happened here?
(Regina laughs)
What just happened here?
This is not what I expected to happen.
So I called some of my gurus or whatever,
and I said, "What just happened here?"
and they said "Teri, we have a Mother Teresa.
"We don't have another person training
for the Department of Defense doing what you're doing."
Therein lies your secret,
to be able to do this work in the real world.
In interesting places.
(laughter)
In interesting places, yes.
Do you find that in that real world,
where we're talking about some
agencies that have a lot of different things going,
that it's, especially when we start kinda
stereotyping industries, for example.
Do you find it's really not the same
when you get to an individual level,
as the people's, as someone's understanding
of some of these kind of overarching motives or agendas?
Unfortunately, I would have said that.
Before I went into politics,
I was a gubernatorial appointee at one time,
going from division to division,
and I found most of the people I encountered
in the political realm, unfortunately,
to be worse than I expected them to be.
Oh goodness.
So that was quite a shock for me.
That's a surprise.
But remember, I hadn't been watching T.V.,
and I hadn't been reading the paper,
so what did I know? (laughs)
Gee, I was kinda thinking
maybe it would be the other way.
I'd love to have given you a positive here.
So I came outta that one a little bit shell shocked.
I came outta that one a little bit shell shocked.
But you worked on somea your co-workers.
Absolutely, and we did a fabulous job.
And what I found was, as is true anywhere,
it's just percentages.
If we choose to believe in the Pareto Principle
of the 80/20 rule, all the research on that,
in one industry, you probably have 20% self-seekers
and 80% who are really working for a higher good,
and perhaps in another industry,
its 20/80 goes the other way.
Well, now you're in the 80/20, it sounds like.
Let's hope so.
(laughter)
I'm pretty blessed, I meet some pretty fun people.
Even what we would call traditional people,
and again, as you can tell, I can move my language
to meet the person where they are.
I have zero desire to change a person's belief system.
If they come in with a belief system,
we work with that belief system
to get them the results they want.
If you could instill just one thought,
and not even instill, but maybe just share with us,
one thought that seems to move to the heart
of what most people are looking for.
Oh sure, peace, inner peace.
I ended up doing a CD after 20 years
called Attain Inner Peace.
The way that started is I made the commitment
to do a 12-step series, one for
each of the steps of the AA program.
And the more I got into that, and I studied it,
met with the coordinators, all that stuff,
I'm a researcher, and
my ego gets involved, you'd think after all these years
I wouldn't have ego attachment, but,
give that over, I have ego attachment.
And I just kept saying, this isn't gonna take 12 recordings.
I can do this in one recording.
And everybody kept saying, no you can't.
And I kept saying, "Yes, I can."
So I just kept focusing on that,
and I thank Steven Halpern for this,
he and I were working on some music,
and this was a line in one of--
Oh, perfect.
This was a line in one of his brochures,
and I just jumped it into the script, which is
"I dissolve all my imbalances on the soul level
"around seeking inner peace in dysfunctional ways."
Now, that hits it all.
That's alcohol, that's all addictions,
that's working too much, that's, you know,
the constant gardener, it's staying in the garden too much.
That hits it.
I said, I like that.
If you haven't already seen Rob Williams,
you might want to check it out,
as it adds another piece to the subject
of programming our subconscious for higher functioning.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(soulful music)